[Music]
Hello, welcome to Chat in the Arena, your
weekly podcast where we share
ideas about content we've read, listened to, and
watched, always bringing a
product perspective to the discussion. I'm Artur from
São Paulo, don't miss the six rounds! I
'm very
happy! And after a few
weeks without talking about AI, we're going to
have a program just about AI!
That's right, and in today's program
we're going to talk about the
news roundup, the latest news in the AI ​​world,
both from Open AI and
Google. But what do we have in terms of
announcements about upcoming Arena courses?
Before we get to the news, a
quick note of the week to say that this
Saturday, May 18th, we'll have the last course of
the month, the Critical and
Analytical Thinking course. We did an in-person version of it
two weeks ago, and this
week will be the online version. And in
July, we're already
letting you know that in July
we'll have another edition of the in-person
Critical and Analytical Thinking course, on July
6th and 20th.  There will be a third edition
of the online live event for PMs and
we'll be there! That's a
discount on the link in the ins! And remember
that we have a solidarity ticket
where 100% of the value raised – we've already
raised R$6,000 with
tickets – is 100% destined for
initiatives to help with the tragedy happening
in Rio Grande do Sul. Good,
great! Let's go to the
paa! Let's go!
[Music]
Okay, let's
do this in chronological order, right?
We're recording here on Tuesday the 14th.
On Monday we had the Open event,
the Spring Update. We'll start
with that, and the main thing about this event
was the launch of the new Open model,
the new flagship, the GPT 4.
The 4 in English, and I was hearing a little while ago that
the 'o' stands for Omni because I think during
the presentation they didn't say that, I didn't get
to see why it's called Omni, but it's a
new model, it's not the GPT 5 as many
people were speculating, it's not even a
GPT 4.5. Let's go!  Let's say, and looking at how
it performs in benchmarks
against the previous model, the GPT 4
Turbo, I think those were the big things,
the main features and
points for us to discuss. I think the
first and most striking is that this model
will also be available to
free users. Until now, those who
weren't paying for GPT Plus (I think GPT
Plus is the name of the subscription)
only had access to version 3.5, which is
an older version with
capabilities well below the GPT 4 and
then the GPT 4 Turbo. Now this new
model is available to everyone.
And I think the first point, in
my view, and I don't know if it's
intentional or if they hit a
barrier to improving the model, is
that the focus was very much on improving price and
latency, making it faster and
cheaper, and thus more
accessible to everyone, and bringing
free availability. And I think there's
an interesting point, right? What are
you going to pay for now?
What's the advantage of continuing to
pay those 20 dollars a month? Have you
thought about that? I put this...
This point in my notes is like this,
and they also said there will be more...
uh, there will be, right, access to more
voice capacity and I don't know what, but I... I don't know, maybe
the only advantage... From what I
understood, is that you'll be able to make
a GPT only on
Plus; on the
free version, you can consume GPTs.
Now, making GPTs... I don't know if it will be
directly available
on the free version. It's also a novelty,
right? Access to GPTs, which was
exclusive to those who had Plus, which was
a huge barrier for those who made
a GPT. There was adoption, right? Now,
free users can consume GPTs
too. And I think it's even worth doing a
recap like this:
General Balance, and then we'll
talk about ISS. Okay, so let's go, we passed the
model. It will be available to everyone for
free. GPTs available for free
users. There will be a desktop application,
but here with an asterisk, for now
only for Mac, and I think by the end of the
year for Windows. And the excuse here is that
most of its user base is on
Mac, so... could it be a partnership
there, right?
If it's not a partnership, how much do they
take advantage of...  The code base also goes from the
iOS app to the Mac app, which made things easier
with Swift,
and what else do we have there? I think
there are things that are more improvements to the
model itself, so they made
improvements for 50 different languages,
so for languages ​​other than English, the
performance should be better, including
for our beloved Portuguese. And I think
the main thing that was in the demos
is talking to the model, right? You could
call it Open Assistant or something like that,
but the focus they gave
in the presentation was on
multimodal interactions, you can talk to the
model, it responds in real time, and
you can have interactions where you show
photos and videos to the model and you
have a conversation, you interrupt. I think
those were the big things there,
more consumer-focused, right? Yes, and this part
of the personal assistant
was
the big difference for me because it
starts off as they
presented it. We know that in these
presentations there's usually something
that isn't quite
ready yet, but it's already
better than all the
personal assistants that exist, like that thing
we were starting with on WhatsApp,
the bar is very low.  Okay, but
even in recent cases of assistants
that we've seen, like
Rabbit and the AIP, there
was a huge delay in responses, is
n't that the case here? And there's that, right? I think
another thing is that Open Access
showed that you don't need a
device anymore; you can use
your cell phone and it will connect
to the world normally with the
items already on the phone, like the camera, the
microphone, and things like that. It's
a bit like what we talked about in the
programs we mentioned,
especially AIP. It's like, it's an
app. You know, it didn't need to be a
device, it was doomed, and people were
joking about how many companies were on Y
Combinator. Open Access also killed that with
its launch, you know?
Taking this as a starting point, I'll even ask the question I
posed: is Open Access kind of like
Apple when we're
talking about... well,
what are Apple's... because Apple is many
things, right? Like, what you see... but
when I do it in this context of
being...
The question is about setting the bar, it's linked to the first
mover, and in terms of quality, I do
n't know if it's really a first mover. If you
stop to think about it, like with the Apple
Vision or the iPhone, etc., devices already existed, right?
But that's why
I say it's more about setting the
bar, you know? Uh-huh, but I don't know, I
was questioning this
because we're going to talk about the
Google event too. I think I
also have a very
strategic part of Open, so I'll talk about it. Okay,
Google has an event on Tuesday and
Wednesday. I'll
post an event here on Monday and talk about
the details. It was a
relatively long event, it was half an hour of
presentations. Besides that, there are
demo videos on the website, but it was
half an hour in a place where the
Open office room appeared, without the 's', without
the 'mura murate' presenting exactly,
but anyway, I was thinking about this, you
know?
Because, what is the point,
right? Like, Open is kind of
being the trendsetter, it was in 2022, in
November, when it launched.  But
after that, she's the one pulling
these big things off, so you make the
comparison with her, you know? You
compare, "Oh, okay, Gemini,
Microsoft, of course, they have all those too,"
but the comparison is kind of about who's setting
the bar, like, "Oh, how does
Open do it?" You know, they're doing it. I
think even comparing her to
Apple, it's very much back then, I don't know, up until the
iPhone 5, iPhone 6, everything the
other competitors did was try to catch up,
you know? Who defined the trend was
what was on the iPhone, and then the
others would do it. And I'm even taking
Google's events, man, it's tough. It's
not bad luck, it's all planned
there, but like, you see Google's event
after seeing Open's, and you get that
feeling of "they launched it and you
copied it." Obviously, that's not it, but it's a
feeling, you're seeing the same thing there,
of someone trying to catch up.
So I think there's something like that.
I think what's clear
to me is that they are totally on the
path to being a consumer product company,
like making the
GPT chat product...  A business with high
adoption rates, a business that people
know, that people use every
day, so much so that if you look at the demos,
they're 100% on the app, except for the time
they want to show the desktop app, and it's
actually the desktop app, right? Everything
else is done on the mobile app, with
interactions that you would have
on a mobile phone. In fact, right? So I think there's
a very strong emphasis on
building products for the consumer without
losing their strong developer focus, you
know? But wouldn't this whole
thing of theirs using the
mobile phone a lot and everything else also be a
subliminal message about this partnership
with Apple? And to give context here,
I don't know, I think it's worth giving the
context that we've already talked about more
than once here:
Apple wants to put PR in
iOS 18, right? And well, there's
a long-standing partnership with
Google for the search engine and so on, so
naturally, a partnership that costs
Google 20 billion dollars, right? Exactly. And
then naturally they say, "Oh, great,
Google already does
this, wants to do this."  Part of it
here too, since you guys are doing it
there.
And it seems it wasn't as hot as you
expected. And then she
said, "Okay, let me talk to
Sama over there,
let's chat," and it seems it's pretty hot, right?
The rumors are
saying a lot about that. I also don't
know if it's a subliminal message there.
Like, "Hey, we're already introducing this
app, it's going to hit your head soon,
A1, damn, it's going to be 100% there,
grad blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah," anyway,
theories about Siri being... it's
going to use Openi behind the scenes, right? So, it's impossible
to know, right? Really, how
much is rumor and how much is true... I'm
just waiting to see. But
man, speaking of that Live demo
they did in the presentation, right, of the
conversation interactions, I found it
quite impressive initially,
how fluid the conversation and the
model's response were. Today, like, you yourself
in the text in the chat app in Portuguese, it takes a
little while for it to return the text
to you...  The voice interactions were very fast there.
I think there's a
really interesting trick I saw
someone on Twitter commenting on: if you see
all the responses, it starts with
something kind of generic like, "Um,
good question," or repeating what
you asked or
commented on. It's actually a very
human strategy, right? Repeating to give you
time to think and come back. This
could help you process
faster and give a quicker response with
these simple, common
conversational responses. Meanwhile, in the
background, you're consulting the
larger model to give the complete answer.
So it's an engineering thing here, but it
works super well. It's fluid; it's
a real conversation. It's not like a
tactical RPG, like a
video game where everyone takes an action in
their turn. It's a conversation; you can
interrupt, and she understands. There's the whole
part where she understands the tones and what you're
saying, which everyone is saying, right? It's
like the movie Her, the first stage
of the movie Her. And speaking of that,
I personally found that
style of communication very annoying. I
think for a presentation, it works in
everyday life, but it's annoying, you know? You want to go
straight to the answer.  And hopefully, this can be
maneuvered well so that
each user has their preferences for
how this assistant behaves, you know, the
way it talks, and what did you
think, Artur? Oh man, I liked it, I liked
the exchange of ideas because, for me, I
think it's the first thing you can
do, it's a conversation, so you can
interrupt it, you can give more
context and continue, not wait for that
question and answer phase, you know, that you
need to finish and all that. I liked it, and the part
about the interaction, whether with text or
images, with what you're seeing and what
you're writing. Man, that's
fantastic, you know, very Game Kang, right? You
think, "Change the translation there," what
they even simulate there with her
speaking Italian, you know, and so on. So, man,
I think this really is a
very practical use case and it
's really a change that
can fit very well into everyday life, you know?
So I really want to test it, I really want to
see more, you know,
how much it will actually enter the
routine because I think that's it,
for me, it's arriving, this may become what
we
even talked about in the past...  Deep chat has had a
kind of curve of entering
people's daily lives, right? And I think, of course, there's
a percentage that hasn't yet, but it's
already at a percentage of people who
use it a lot and it's become part of the routine.
If this virtual assistant part
also enters the routine with the
Portuguese chat, then you're talking about a
huge increase in productivity, you know? I'm curious, and the
thing I was thinking about is what
you said
about adoption, you know, the volume of people
using it. There were some things that
made me think about this. One was the advantages
of continuing to pay. That was the
first one, because from what's on the website,
besides the thing about creating GP3 that you
mentioned, the advantages of continuing are
having access earlier to these
voice capabilities, so everything from that
demo.
You can access it before
other people, have access to the
desktop app earlier, and a higher volume of
messages there, right? And these are things that
seem to only appeal to heavy users, you
know, to those who use it a lot, to those who are already very
much in this ecosystem of having
Portuguese chat integrated into their daily lives. But then
I took a step back and thought, "But really?"
That's not what it
used to be. Like, how many people do you
know who pay for the Apple Plus chat?
And
the worst part is, I know quite a few, no,
but I know people who aren't, like, we know, people
who work in tech,
who are early adopters of things, you know? It
's when you think about the
curve of Crossing the Chain, you know, man, it's still
in the early adopter phase, you know, the guy
who pays is the very early adopter, so
I think that's another thing I
was thinking about when they said that
most of their users are on
macOS, right? If that justification is
true, it's also another thing, like, it
's not something that's mass-marketed
yet because most of the
cell phones in the world are Android, most
of the computers in the world are
Windows, so it's clearly something
that's still in its early stages, you
know?
And then,
fitting in now with
Google, a last-minute news item,
no, but it was today, one of the
founders, one of the co-founders of Open,
Elias Kwyver, I don't know if that's the right
word, but I think it's something like that, he
announced that he's leaving, right? After  "10
years there and all that, Sunman announced, 'Hey,
the Open won't be the same without
you,' and so on, I don't know what, but one more,
right, from the group leaving, and Will was the
pivot of the whole thing with Sam Altman's departure,
right? In theory, he was the one who called the
board, who made a board cup there to
get rid of Sam. And then after Sam
came back, he wasn't on Board
William anymore. And for months, people
were speculating on Twitter about what
his position was, what he
was doing. Apparently, he was
preparing his successor.
And so, let's see what happens next, but it's
one of those team members who leaves, and I just remembered
here, we didn't get to talk about
US cases, right? But I looked at my
notebook here, I think there's a
very large US case that I'll have in my
GPT chat, that app for reading things, and this
multimodality of transcribing the
things I write in my notebook to
digital, because I'm the kind of person who
writes things down to think about things
that help me, and then I wanted to take it."
I have to keep rewriting things in online Docs, but
I do that directly
on my iPad. I've been using
Notability for years, and it
recognizes my handwriting sometimes
when I'm typing. I just copy it, and it
translates it to plain text. It's pretty good, cool.
Let's talk about Google. I
think
Google has a problem: it
has too many products. It has a lot of things,
it loves to
change the names of its products every now and then, with
each new event.
And I think that makes it difficult to
talk about what was announced
by Google, you know? Because there are so many
things. There are models, there are
products, there are
tests they're doing,
and not only are there many products, but there are also
announcements for different audiences.
So, the functionality of
summarizing things in the Gmail app is
for the end consumer, while the consumption of a
specific model is more for
developers. The new chip they're going to
launch is more of a B2B developer thing.
So, it's very...  This product is for a
very different audience, which makes it difficult, you
know? At least I have some experience with it, but I think I
'll do it a little
differently. Instead of listing the
main releases, the things that
caught my attention the most, let's
talk about... first, Gemini 1.5
Pro, which is their main model. It will
have a larger context window; it
's already the largest context window of
all models, with 1 million tokens, and it
will increase to 2 million tokens. That
's a lot! You'll be able to store
dozens of hours of movies, millions of
books, a whole bunch of things. And what I
found interesting here is that they say
in the presentation, "It's a step further, an
infinite context window," which
I think is their endgame:
you don't need to worry about that.
I think that's a very game-
changer for LLMs as a whole. And there was a
new model, Gni 1.5 Flash, which is a
lower latency model. It
should also power these applications, even those with
faster response times. And I don't know
if you noticed this, but in the examples
they have, they're already talking about the next one, which is
Project...  Astra, what he does is that, right?
You're multimodal. You can record and
ask EA questions or take
pictures there. So, the example he gives, for
instance, he's holding his phone
recording, he shows the screen with code and
asks what that code does, and
then answers there. So, very similar to the
demo that OpenAI did, but the response is
slower. If you compare it like that, you see there's
a delay, right? Yeah. And this is
something that I think
was harmed by the
OpenAI event. It would have been
really cool
if we hadn't seen
OpenAI do the same thing the day before. Yeah, man, that's it.
I think for me, it's
kudos to OpenAI. They just
stayed there, thinking, "Oh, Google is going to
do something," I know they're going to talk a lot about it.
So, wait, let
me set the bar, and also, here's another piece of
information about the rumors
about why Apple also held an event
last week to launch...  The
new iPad was there, I said I said something, I don't know what, man,
the open air GP could have done it
last week too, so doing it on Friday, right,
doing it at the end of the week, so
one more thing like that, but kudos to the
can in this case, the timing was
perfect, exact, and the last thing
that caught my attention the most,
obviously, there are several other
things, several other applications, so I
recommend watching the video, so
catching the main things here, which is
the JAMS, which is Google's GPT, right, the
G9, so it's the same thing, you create a
GPT specialized in something, right, which
is the same thing as you make a GPT
within the GPT chat, only on Google it's
the
JAMS, and you, Artur, was there anything there that
caught your attention the most? What
caught my attention the most was that the
most relevant information, right, is that
the word was used 120 times during the
2 hours, almost 2 hours of
Google's presentation, and then, of the points, besides the ones
you brought up, I think there's
Google Vell there too, right, which is
kind of the competitor to the
Sora model, right, generation of  In the video about
video generation from
OpenPI, there's one I found really cool,
which was the LM model, which uses
AI models geared towards learning, acting as
a kind of tutor. What
I found most interesting
about it was that they've been
testing these models for a while with
various teachers, and they'll be in
Google Classroom to
help teachers see what can be
simplified and
planned to aid in
lesson planning. I think that's really great; it has
enormous potential.
They didn't talk about it, but OpenPI
also gave examples of studies
showing, "Help me solve this
physics problem," "This
math problem." These
Artificial Intelligence tools are going to be so
amazing for education, both
for those who already have access today, and to
bring access to those who don't, you know? It's about
quality education, sometimes, like,
you delve deeper, you can achieve... and
I thought it was really cool that in both
presentations, when they talk
about this, they explicitly say, "Don't
give me the answer," "Explain how I get
to the answer," "Keep helping me," and
Google even more so in bringing these
insights to...  The professor, a member of his
students, said that most of them had
difficulty with this thing here, so he
reinforced it in class and gave more exercises
on it. So, as an enthusiast of
applied technology education, I
find it one of the most
interesting areas, and when I see these
use cases, I get super
excited about how this will democratize and
actually bring greater access and
quality education to more people.
Especially when we see,
you don't need an
amazing computer, you just have a cell phone in your hand and you
can use this model, you know? So
that's totally awesome! And
besides that, there was the Firebase JKit,
which is basically another thing for
Firebase, but to make it easier
to create applications with it. And
I think the final nail in the coffin is
that now there won't be
Google Assistant anymore, it will be Google
Gemini, also on
Android, right? And if they
don't change the name by then and kill the
product, that, for me, is one of the big
things that prevents me from getting
so excited about this
presentation. I think many of the
things there look like demos, so I...  It's
mainly because Google has a
history with IQ, you know, of making a
super well-produced, awesome demo video and
then it not being so good. So I'm
very wary of many things
launching in a few months or towards the
end of the year, and then you're wondering, "Wait, when will it really launch?" You
know, "Will it
launch? Will it launch
working like this?" So,
as a user, I have this apprehension. And if
I were a developer or a company, I
would be very apprehensive about
Google's history of frequently killing products.
So, I'm going to
bet on the ecosystem that
seems more stable, even though it's from
a new company, Open Source. It's
a new company compared to Google,
or I'm going to go with Google, which every year is
a new product, a different thing, and
a company that kills products
left and right. So I think there's
this thing that works against it,
this history, you know, for people to
invest in the ecosystem. I think it's like,
for those who already use Google Workspace,
Google Docs, Gmail, it's awesome, we'll
use it, and so on. But imagine you're building
something new, who are you going to use on
your...  Backend: Ali, you go to Google's
G capabilities, or you go to Gemini, right?
And I think that's why both
Google and Microsoft are pushing
so hard towards their cloud side,
like, "Come build your products
here," because we have the best
hardware, the highest availability,
tools that use BS hardware for
that, you
know? That's it, that
was
Google. Yes, that's
it, let's wait and see.
The Openi model is already rolling out to
everyone, right? But the application with
Voice isn't the way they showed it
yet. And here, at least for me,
the PT chat app hasn't appeared yet on my Mac App Store,
at least I haven't found where to
download it. But as we use it,
do tests, and see
cool things, we'll bring them here to the
program too, right? Who knows, maybe in a few
weeks our product of the week
will be the GPT chat app on desktop or
mobile because we're using it a
lot, or Gini, anyway, let's see, right? That's
it, we'll see scenes from the next
episodes. That's it, and taking advantage of the fact that
we talked about product of the week,
let's go to our block of products
of the week. Let's go,
what do we have there? Let you
start.  What's your product of the
week, man? The product of the week is the Kindle,
but it's the app, not the device. Look,
I use it, I read more... well, I have
the Kindle app on my phone, Mac,
and iPad, and man, I like it. It's
simple, practical, and it works, you know? It
works without much effort, you know, even though
there are some weird things, right?
Like, you can't buy a book
through the
Kindle app without paying a fee. You know, it's so you do
n't pay the
30%... no, I know, but damn, it's a
30% margin, my friend! Ebooks
shouldn't have a huge
margin for you to give up 30%
like that for free. The app just
throws me to the Amazon app, you know?
I know there are issues, but I don't know, they could
do something, you know?
Anyway, it's a very good app and it
works, and that's it. And believe it or not,
I use the app much more
than reading directly on the device, you know?
That's what I found curious, man. I
almost never use the Kindle app
on the iPad; I checked my phone and I don't even
have one.  Kindle on my phone installed. You
see, you have an idea, it's on
my Home Screen, it's literally
one of the apps that isn't in a folder and is in an
easy-to-click area to access it with my finger.
But I use
the device a lot, and I occasionally use it
on the computer too because I want to
access some highlights, you know, something
I've highlighted and stuff, so I
open it because it's usually something
I want to see for
work, and then I'm already on the computer, it's
cool. Kindle app, not
Kindle device. Man, mine this week was
my Nintendo Switch, my video
game, a physical product, and why? But there's
an explanation, and maybe my
product could be a game, actually, which
came out last week, the early access of
Ads 2, which is a game, as the name itself
says, a sequel to the game Ads,
which is a hog-like that was a huge success,
one of the most successful early access games
in history, and then the early access
of Ads 2 came out and made me want to play
Ads 1 again, and I play it on the Switch. And man, I
'm playing every day, so I
consumed a lot.  ads and my stuff
last week, so these are my
products of the week: this combo of a
physical device, a game for this
Nintendo Switch device, and
ads. And what do we have from our
listeners that they sent us? Oh,
Ailon, and this week LinkedIn
talked a lot about Mag, which is
the
Fintec app through WhatsApp and stuff. Oh, I
see that all the time on my LinkedIn. Man, I have
n't stopped to understand what it is
yet, but I've seen dozens of posts about
it. Yes, yes, man, whoever is using it has
spoken very highly of it. And basically,
instead of needing a bank app,
you do everything through WhatsApp itself,
and there's a lot of stuff there. So you
can take a picture and it already recognizes the
payment, it already recognizes what
Pix is, etc. You send a payment slip and it
already makes the charge, it just confirms
if you want to, oh, I'm going to pay here, what? That's it.
So there are
several things there, I sent a
message here to get on the waiting list, okay,
listen, send me
here, but anyway, that's
it. Cloves sent Blink, which is
also a  I see ads for the app directly.
These guys never spend money on
YouTube, man, because they're directly on
YouTube, exactly. But Cloves said it
works, seriously. Dan Leire now
thinks he's a surfer and tried surfing
twice there, took a nice picture
at sunset on his board, now he thinks he's something. He
recommended
SurfView. Nana sent Google Maps,
Amanda sent Zoom, but it's not Zoom, it's
Zoom
for promotions, man. It's been a while since
I saw someone talk about this
thing, I even looked it up and said, "Damn,
this thing still exists!" Yeah, right,
price comparison,
very good price comparison. Luiz sent
TuneBeer, which is a VPN he used to
watch Madonna's show from Portugal.
Look at that!
And Montoy here sent Atlas TI, it's
a tool from the US to
help with research, apparently for the
more academic crowd. So, look,
interesting too. So that's it,
keep sending us products
of the week, every week we comment
and bring them here for everyone.
[Music]
with that...  Okay, so we've reached the end of
today's program. We didn't mention it before, but we
have a celebration here because we
reached 500 followers on Spotify
this week!
So, thank you so much to everyone
who follows us there! And a reminder:
we're not just on Spotify; we also have "
Papo na Arena" on YouTube, we have "
Papo na Arena" on Substack, we have "
Papo na Arena" anywhere you
listen to podcasts. On Apple Podcasts, just
search for us and follow us to be
notified every week when we
have a new program. Also,
for those who listen on Spotify, you can
turn on the bell icon
to be reminded and receive
notifications. There's a bell icon on YouTube
too; check if your
podcast app has one so you don't miss
any episodes of our program and
are notified as soon as it goes
live. That's it! Don't forget to follow
us too, @pr carena @ AX
@ur close comk, and our newsletters
too, like "Que eu vi por aí" and "
Brilliant
Basics". That's it, next week there's
another
program!  Thanks my friend. Thanks my friend, see you
next week, let's see if there will be any
more news, until then we'll see. Thanks. Thanks.